# .map(callback)

## Description

Map takes in an array as its input and then does something to each item, defined by a custom callback function. [inline.md](../../../custom-syntax/inline.md "mention") or [functions.md](../../../custom-syntax/functions.md "mention").

## Parameters

Map needs the array to modify, and the custom function that tells it how to modify the items.

## Usage On Arrays

In the provided examples, the `map` function is being used to iterate over the array `num`, which contains the numbers `[1,2,3,4,5]`. For each element in the array, the `map` function applies a specified operation, defined by the callback function, to transform the elements.

* A separate function `myfunc` is defined using the syntax `def myfunc(this.item)`.
* Inside the function, `this.item * 2` is returned, which multiplies each item by 2.
* `num.map(myfunc)` is called, applying the `myfunc` to each element, resulting in a new array `[2,4,6,8,10]`

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```javascript
num = [1,2,3,4,5]

def myfunc(this.item) (
  return this.item * 2
)

log num.map(myfunc)
// [2,4,6,8,10]
```
{% endcode %}

Using `map` with arrow functions or lambda functions can simplify your code, especially for straightforward transformations. This method is particularly useful when:

* The operation is a simple one-liner.
* The function doesn't need to be reused elsewhere.
* Improved readability and conciseness are desired.

In more complex scenarios, you might still prefer defining a separate function for clarity and potential reuse. Nonetheless, for many use cases involving array transformations, arrow functions offer a neat and efficient approach.

```javascript
num = [1,2,3,4,5]

log num.map(def(this.item) -> (
  return this.item * 2
))
// [2,4,6,8,10]
```
